add Events docs file = docs/src/pages/docs/events.md (#2008)
coral-xyz/anchor: docs/src/pages/docs/events.md

# Events

> Events are an incredibly powerful feature in Anchor. Rather than polling or refreshing to

Reviewer: Forgot to put this in the review, but this should be changed to support frontmatter like the rest of the articles I think. It should have a `title` and `description`.

Although I don't immediately see where the description is used, all of the other files have them.

Author: Done.

find out if an account's state has changed, events are like callbacks that save space, compute,
and enable asynchronous programming.

> The main downside to events are that they are base64 encoded, and therefore not human readable.
> Despite this tradeoff, the UI can easily decode them, and the user benefits from this 
> compact mode of logging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main downside to events are that they are base64 encoded, and therefore not human readable.
Despite this tradeoff, the UI can easily decode them, and the user benefits from this 
compact mode of logging. There are many use cases for events, ranging from simple return values, to compact storage storage solutions for data logging.
```

This sets you up nicely to flow into the next section of chapter/page, which I've also suggested a restructure on.

> There are a couple of ways to use events, which vary somewhat:
> - to provide a return value
> - as a callback or interrupt for event-driven programming
> - as a compact and efficient means of data logging
> 
> *Return values*: Here we use an event to immediately provide a return value, such as details related
> to a transaction. Since calls to certain programs only return a tx hash, this may not provide sufficient detail to your UI. An event here can provide a richer experience, by returning values about how a particular transaction was executed, for example.
> 
> *As a callback*: you may want to monitor an event and be notified only once a transaction is confirmed.
> Instead of polling / querying the blockchain and looking for an account's values to update, we can build our client to only act when the program has emitted an event, saving on compute resources and fees.
> 
> *Cheap storage*: since events are stored in base64, they can be an economical way to store data
> without the trouble of account creation and provisioning for rent-exemption, for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Event Use Cases

### Return Values
We can use an event to immediately provide a return value, such as details related
to a transaction. Since calls to certain programs only return a tx hash, this may not provide sufficient detail to your UI. An event here can provide a richer experience, by returning values about how a particular transaction was executed, for example.

### Callbacks
 You may want to monitor an event and be notified only once a transaction is confirmed.
Instead of polling / querying the blockchain and looking for an account's values to update, we can build our client to only act when the program has emitted an event, saving on compute resources and fees.

### Compact Storage 
Since events are stored in base64, they can be an economical way to store data
without the trouble of account creation and provisioning for rent-exemption, for example.
```

Reviewer: ![Screen Shot 2022-07-05 at 4 19 07 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60185486/177418342-04758a63-037f-492c-a5ac-e71da2aabde9.png)
Here's a screenshot to show how the formatting looks.

## Example

The simplest way to use events is to tack them onto the tail of your program's functions, allowing them to emit
structured data when the function completes without error. 

Start by creating a new anchor project:
```bash
$ anchor init Events
```

> Next, we'll merely modify the program in `src/lib.rs` to add an event, and the accompanying data to the `initialize`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will modify the program in `src/lib.rs` to add an event, and the accompanying data to the `initialize`
```
I'm against using words like simply/merely/just in technical writing, as the people coming to read this may very well be new, and we should foster a safe/comfortable environment for them. It's also just an additional word that doesn't add meaning to the sentence.

I also replace we'll -> we will. This is a nit/personal, but I think if you want to serve an international audience, contractions/slang should be kept to a minimum.

function.
```rust
// ...
    pub fn initialize(_ctx: Context<Initialize>) -> Result<()> {
        emit!(MyEvent {
            data: 5,
            label: "hello".to_string(),
        });
        Ok(())
    }

> // ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// location: src/lib.rs
// ...
```
I know you mention above where this is at, but this should increase skim-ability for people just looking at the code snippet.

#[event]
pub struct MyEvent {
    pub data: u64,
    #[index]
    pub label: String,
}

```

Observe that we are using the event to provide a return value to a successful call to `initialize`.

> The data returned is fairly trivial, a `u64` integer and a short `String`. Without the event, we would have no specific information about the outcome of the initialize function, besides that it was successful.

Reviewer: Here, could you expand on the *why* you return an integer and a string? I think it would be useful to have a bit more context here.

Author: I fix.

Note that the event is declared with the `#[event]` macro, and defined using a `struct`. To supply the values,

> the pattern `emit!(MyEvent {...});` is used. The code above is a basic stamp that can be used for creating and consuming events within your program.

Reviewer: could you speak to the `#[index]` in the event?
I'm relatively new to Anchor, so I could easily be missing something here. But I think if I'm confused, another reader could be as well.

Author: I honestly don't know what that macro does. I googled it and came up empty-handed. Maybe someone can make a suggestion here, if they think it's very important.

Reviewer: looks like index will add metadata to the IDL

for off chain indexers

> Next, nothing fancy but we'll add a new function called `test_event` with a new event that emits some other values. Complete code for `src/lib.rs` is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will add a new function called `test_event` with a new event that emits some other values. Complete code for `src/lib.rs` is shown below:
```

```rust
use anchor_lang::prelude::*;

declare_id!("Fg6PaFpoGXkYsidMpWTK6W2BeZ7FEfcYkg476zPFsLnS");

#[program]
pub mod events {
    use super::*;

    pub fn initialize(_ctx: Context<Initialize>) -> Result<()> {
        emit!(MyEvent {
            data: 5,
            label: "hello".to_string(),
        });
        Ok(())
    }

    pub fn test_event(_ctx: Context<TestEvent>) -> Result<()> {
        emit!(MyOtherEvent {
            data: 6,
            label: "bye".to_string(),
        });
        Ok(())
    }
}

#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct Initialize {}

#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct TestEvent {}

#[event]
pub struct MyEvent {
    pub data: u64,
    #[index]
    pub label: String,
}

#[event]
pub struct MyOtherEvent {
    pub data: u64,
    #[index]
    pub label: String,
}
```

## Consuming Events

> To test our program, we'll build a test client that will be able to consume the events. The structure for doing this is essentially:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test our program, we will build a test client that can consume the events. The structure for doing this is essentially:
```
removing contraction and reducing wordiness.

```javascript
    // ...
    let listener = null;

    let [event, slot] = await new Promise((resolve, _reject) => {
      listener = program.addEventListener("MyEvent", (event, slot) => {
        resolve([event, slot]);
      });
      program.rpc.initialize();
    });
    await program.removeEventListener(listener);
    // ...
```

We set up a `listener` that will catch when the event is emitted by the program. Since it's an asynchronous activity, we must include `await` to receive our return values. We call the first function using `program.rpc.initialize()` and when the event happens, we destructure the output into variables `event` and `slot`. Finally, when it's done, we close the listener. We can access our output values as follows: `event.data.toNumber()` or `event.label`.

> With the explanation out of the way, edit the file in `tests/events.ts`. Copy-paste the test code into the file as follows, then run `$ anchor test` from the command line to verify that it's working as intended:

Reviewer: Could you add a line about *what* the expected output to this is?

Author: Done.

## Event Use Cases

### Return Values
We can use an event to immediately provide a return value, such as details related
to a transaction. Since calls to certain programs only return a tx hash, this may not provide sufficient detail to your UI. An event here can provide a richer experience, by returning values about how a particular transaction was executed, for example.

### Callbacks
 You may want to monitor an event and be notified only once a transaction is confirmed.
Instead of polling / querying the blockchain and looking for an account's values to update, we can build our client to only act when the program has emitted an event, saving on compute resources and fees.

### Compact Storage 
Since events are stored in base64, they can be an economical way to store data
without the trouble of account creation and provisioning for rent-exemption, for example.

## Example

The simplest way to use events is to tack them onto the tail of your program's functions, allowing them to emit
structured data when the function completes without error. 

Start by creating a new anchor project:
```bash

> $ anchor init Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
anchor init Events
```

In other sections of the docs we don't add the $. I agree with upholding that standard as I've always found the `$` to get in the way when I'm trying to copy it.

the pattern `emit!(MyEvent {...});` is used. The code above is a basic stamp that can be used for creating and consuming events within your program.

Next, we will add a new function called `test_event` with a new event that emits some other values. Complete code for `src/lib.rs` is shown below:

```rust
use anchor_lang::prelude::*;

declare_id!("Fg6PaFpoGXkYsidMpWTK6W2BeZ7FEfcYkg476zPFsLnS");

#[program]
pub mod events {
    use super::*;

    pub fn initialize(_ctx: Context<Initialize>) -> Result<()> {
        emit!(MyEvent {
            data: 5,
            label: "hello".to_string(),
        });
        Ok(())
    }

    pub fn test_event(_ctx: Context<TestEvent>) -> Result<()> {
        emit!(MyOtherEvent {
            data: 6,
            label: "bye".to_string(),
        });
        Ok(())
    }
}

#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct Initialize {}

#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct TestEvent {}

#[event]
pub struct MyEvent {
    pub data: u64,
    #[index]
    pub label: String,
}

#[event]
pub struct MyOtherEvent {
    pub data: u64,
    #[index]
    pub label: String,
}
```

## Consuming Events

> To test our program, we'll build a test client that will be able to consume the events. The structure for doing this is essentially:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test our program, we will build a test client that will be able to consume the events. The structure for doing this is essentially:
```
removing a contraction for non-native english readers.

```javascript
    // ...
    let listener = null;

    let [event, slot] = await new Promise((resolve, _reject) => {
      listener = program.addEventListener("MyEvent", (event, slot) => {
        resolve([event, slot]);
      });
      program.rpc.initialize();
    });
    await program.removeEventListener(listener);
    // ...
```

We set up a `listener` that will catch when the event is emitted by the program. Since it's an asynchronous activity, we must include `await` to receive our return values. We call the first function using `program.rpc.initialize()` and when the event happens, we destructure the output into variables `event` and `slot`. Finally, when it's done, we close the listener. We can access our output values as follows: `event.data.toNumber()` or `event.label`.

> With the explanation out of the way, edit the file in `tests/events.ts`. Copy-paste the test code into the file as follows, then run `$ anchor test` from the command line to verify that it's working as intended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the explanation out of the way, edit the file in `tests/events.ts`. Copy-paste the test code into the file as follows, then run `anchor test` from the command line to verify that it's working as intended.
```
Same here, removing the `$` for consistency across docs
